these are the statutes and judgments
which you shall be careful to observe in
the land which the Lord God of your
father's is giving you to possess all
the days that you live on the earth you
shall utterly destroy all the places
were the nations which you shall
dispossessed served their gods on the
high mountains and on the hills and
under every green tree and you shall
destroy their altars break their sacred
pillars and burn their wooden images
with fire you shall cut down the carved
images of their gods and destroy their
names from that place
you shall not worship the Lord your God
with such things but you shall seek the
place with the Lord your God chooses out
of all your tribes to put his name for
his dwelling place and there you shall
go there you shall take your burnt
offerings your sacrifices your tithes
the heave offerings of your hand your
vowed offerings your freewill offerings
and the firstborn of your herds and
flocks and there you shall eat before
the Lord your God and you shall rejoice
in all to which you have put your hand
you and your households in which the
Lord your God has blessed you
you shall not at all do as we are doing
here today
every man doing whatever is right in his
own house for as yet you have not come
to the rest and the inheritance which
the Lord your God is giving you but when
you cross over the Jordan and dwell in
the land which the Lord your God is
giving you to inherit and he gives you
rest from all your enemies roundabout so
that you dwell in safety
then there will be the place where the
Lord your God chooses to make his name
abide there you shall bring all that I
command you your burnt offerings your
sacrifices your tithes the heave
offerings of your hand and all your
choice offerings which you vow to the
Lord and you shall rejoice before the
Lord your God you and your sons and your
daughters your male and female servants
and the Levites who is within your gates
since he has no portion or inheritance
with you take heed to yourself that you
do not offer your burnt offerings in
every place that you see but in the
place which the Lord chooses in one of
your tribes there you shall offer your
burnt offerings and there you shall do
all that I command you
however the humane slaughter and eat
meat within all your gates whatever your
heart's desires according to the
blessing of the Lord your God which he
has given you the unclean and the clean
may eat of it of the gazelle and the
deer alike only you shall not eat the
blood you shall pour it on the earth
like water you may not eat within your
gates the tithes of your grain or your
new wine or your oil of the first one of
your herd or your flock of any of your
offerings which you vow of your free
will offerings or of the heave offering
of your hand
but you must eat them before the Lord
your God in the place which the Lord
your God chooses you and your son and
your daughter your male servant and your
female servant and the Levites who is
within your gates and you shall rejoice
before the Lord your God in all to which
you put your hands take heed to yourself
that you do not forsake the Levite as
long as you live in your land when the
Lord your God enlarges your border as he
has promised you and you say let me
reach because you long to eat meat you
may eat as much meat as your heart
desires if the place where the Lord your
God chooses to put his name is too far
from you then you may slaughter from
your herd and from your flock which the
Lord has given you just as I have
commanded you and you may eat within
your gates as much as your heart desires
just as the gazelle and the deer are
eaten so you may eat them
the unclean and the clean alike may eat
them
only be sure that you do not eat the
blood for the blood is the life
you may not eat the life with the meat
you shall not eat it you shall pour it
on the earth like water you shall not
eat it that it may go well with you and
your children after you when you do what
is right in the sight of the Lord only
the holy things which you have and your
vowed offerings you shall take and go to
the place which the Lord chooses and you
shall offer your burnt offerings the
meat and the blood on the altar of the
Lord your God and the blood of your
sacrifices shall be poured out on the
altar of the Lord your God and you shall
eat the meats observe and obey all these
words which I command you that it may go
well with you and your children after
you forever when you do what is good and
right in the sight of the Lord your God
when the Lord your God cuts off from
before you the nation's which you go to
dis possess and you displace them and
dwell in their land take heed to
yourself that you are not ensnared to
follow them after they are destroyed
from before you
and that you do not inquire after their
God's saying how did these nations serve
their gods I also will do likewise you
shall not worship the Lord your God in
that way for every abomination to the
Lord which he hates they have done their
gods for they burn even their sons and
daughters in the fire to their gods
whatever I command you be careful to
observe it you shall not add to it nor
take away from it